about/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: DomIRC - About
---

# ABOUT

On this page, you will find more detailed information about the [parent organization](#parent-organization),  the [network staff](#network-staff),  
the [network sponsors](#network-sponsors), the [registered group channels](#registered-group-channels), the [registered providers](#registered-providers) and  
the [contributors](#contributors) who helped with the network's custom developments.  


## Parent Organization

The DomIRC's parent organization is [Blackfields Network](https://blackfields.net).  
It is a french non-profit organization registered under the identifier [W832014133](https://www.journal-officiel.gouv.fr/association/index.php?ACTION=Rechercher&original_method=get&JTY_WALDEC=W832014133).  
Organization membership is mandatory for our operators, but not restricted to them.  


## Network Staff

Here is a list of volunteers and bots in charge of the network.  
Please note that helpers do not have the operator status nor operator privileges.  
If you need any help, please ask in **#domirc** instead of messaging them directly.  
You can also use the `/msg HelpServ help request` command.  

### Operators

‣ **Xenthys** (Dylan Ysmal) - System Administrator  
‣ **Zoddo** (Yohan Prod'homme) - Network Operator  

### Helpers

‣ **tacocat** (James Lu) - Helper  

If no helper is available, please refer to an operator instead.  

### Bots

‣ **Sigyn** (domirc/utility-bot/sigyn) - Network Bot  


## Network Sponsors

The **network sponsors** are people or organizations contributing to the network by  
freely lending one or more servers in order to host some parts of our infrastructure.  

As DomIRC is centrally managed by its [parent organization](#parent-organization), this is the only way to  
sponsorise the network as we must have the control over every server (root access required).  
Linking a server to DomIRC is therefore not possible, as we even use our own IRCd fork.  

If you want to become a **network sponsor**, please get in touch with the network staff,  
they will tell you about our policies and procedures, or redirect you to the right place.  


## Registered Group Channels

The channels are listed by alphabetical order.  

‣ **#bfnt** - Blackfields Network, the parent organization of DomIRC.  
‣ **#domirc** - The DomIRC network itself, general support channel.  
‣ **#elitebnc** - [EliteBNC](https://www.elitebnc.org/) is a registered IRC bouncer provider.  
‣ **#idlerpg** - The DomIRC's official IdleRPG channel.  
‣ **#superbnc** - [SuperBNC](https://superbnc.com/) is a registered IRC bouncer provider.  


## Registered Providers

The **registered providers** are people or organizations providing some services  
such as a **webchat**, an **IRC bouncer**, **shell accounts** or a **VPN** (examples).  

They are given an extended connection limit and a [gateway cloak](/cloaks/#gateway-cloaks) is applied on their IPs.  

If you want to become a **registered provider**, please get in touch with the network staff,  
they will tell you about our policies and procedures, or redirect you to the right place.  


## Contributors

‣ **DomIRC Development Team** - For the **ACK Service**, and basically any custom development not cited below.  
‣ **Charybdis IRCd Team** ([Website](http://charybdis.io) / [GitHub](https://github.com/charybdis-ircd)) - For [Charybdis](https://github.com/charybdis-ircd/charybdis), the awesome base of our server software.  
‣ **Atheme Team** ([Website](http://atheme.net) / [GitHub](https://github.com/atheme)) - For [Atheme](https://github.com/atheme/atheme), the network services we are using everyday.  
‣ **freenode** ([Website](https://freenode.net) / [GitHub](https://github.com/freenode)) - For [Sigyn](https://github.com/freenode/Sigyn) and the custom **cs_access** and **cs_successor** Atheme modules.  
‣ **s0r00t** ([Website](https://s0r00t.github.io) / [GitHub](https://github.com/s0r00t)) - For the DNS check in the custom **cs_moderate** Atheme module.

Commit message:

About page: added #techcavern + rephrasing.

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: DomIRC - About
---

# ABOUT

On this page, you will find more detailed information about the [parent organization](#parent-organization),  the [network staff](#network-staff),  
the [network sponsors](#network-sponsors), the [registered group channels](#registered-group-channels), the [registered providers](#registered-providers) and  
the [contributors](#contributors) who helped with the network's custom developments.  


## Parent Organization

The DomIRC's parent organization is [Blackfields Network](https://blackfields.net).  
It is a french non-profit organization registered under the identifier [W832014133](https://www.journal-officiel.gouv.fr/association/index.php?ACTION=Rechercher&original_method=get&JTY_WALDEC=W832014133).  
Organization membership is mandatory for our operators, but not restricted to them.  


## Network Staff

Here is a list of volunteers and bots in charge of the network.  
Please note that helpers do not have the operator status nor operator privileges.  
If you need any help, please ask in **#domirc** instead of messaging them directly.  
You can also use the `/msg HelpServ help request` command.  

### Operators

‣ **Xenthys** (Dylan Ysmal) - System Administrator  
‣ **Zoddo** (Yohan Prod'homme) - Network Operator  

### Helpers

‣ **tacocat** (James Lu) - Helper  

If no helper is available, please refer to an operator instead.  

### Bots

‣ **Sigyn** (domirc/utility-bot/sigyn) - Network Bot  


## Network Sponsors

The **network sponsors** are people or organizations contributing to the network by  
freely lending one or more servers in order to host some parts of our infrastructure.  

As DomIRC is centrally managed by its [parent organization](#parent-organization), this is the only way to  
sponsorise the network as we must have the control over every server (root access required).  
Linking a server to DomIRC is therefore not possible, as we even use our own IRCd fork.  

If you want to become a **network sponsor**, please get in touch with the network staff,  
they will tell you about our policies and procedures, or redirect you to the right place.  


## Registered Group Channels

The channels are listed by alphabetical order.  

‣ **#bfnt** - Blackfields Network (BFNT), the parent organization of DomIRC.  
‣ **#domirc** - The DomIRC network itself, general support channel.  
‣ **#elitebnc** - [EliteBNC](https://www.elitebnc.org/) is a registered IRC bouncer provider.  
‣ **#idlerpg** - Our IdleRPG channel, managed by the network staff.  
‣ **#superbnc** - [SuperBNC](https://superbnc.com/) is a registered IRC bouncer provider.  
‣ **#techcavern** - [TechCavern](https://github.com/TechCavern) is a FOSS organization, sponsored by BFNT.  


## Registered Providers

The **registered providers** are people or organizations providing some services  
such as a **webchat**, an **IRC bouncer**, **shell accounts** or a **VPN** (examples).  

They are given an extended connection limit and a [gateway cloak](/cloaks/#gateway-cloaks) is applied on their IPs.  

If you want to become a **registered provider**, please get in touch with the network staff,  
they will tell you about our policies and procedures, or redirect you to the right place.  


## Contributors

‣ **DomIRC Development Team** - For the **ACK Service**, and basically any custom development not cited below.  
‣ **Charybdis IRCd Team** ([Website](http://charybdis.io) / [GitHub](https://github.com/charybdis-ircd)) - For [Charybdis](https://github.com/charybdis-ircd/charybdis), the awesome base of our server software.  
‣ **Atheme Team** ([Website](http://atheme.net) / [GitHub](https://github.com/atheme)) - For [Atheme](https://github.com/atheme/atheme), the network services we are using everyday.  
‣ **freenode** ([Website](https://freenode.net) / [GitHub](https://github.com/freenode)) - For [Sigyn](https://github.com/freenode/Sigyn) and the custom **cs_access** and **cs_successor** Atheme modules.  
‣ **s0r00t** ([Website](https://s0r00t.github.io) / [GitHub](https://github.com/s0r00t)) - For the DNS check in the custom **cs_moderate** Atheme module.
